# Question: using [Hugo](hugo.md) to render Zettelkasten folder

#[hugo](hugo.md) #[zettelkasten](zettelkasten.md) #[thread](thread.md) #[question](question.md)

I have a folder `~/dox/notes` full of .md files. I want to render them all with Hugo.
First of all, i created a folder `~/dox/notes/test` with `config.toml` file (and the rest files created by `hugo new site`), containing:
```
baseURL = 'http://localhost:12000/'
languageCode = 'en-us'
title = 'Zettelkasten'
```
And if i try to run
`hugo --contentDir ~/dox/notes --configDir ~/dox/notes/test serve --port 12000`, the server says Page not found on any page including the /.
But that seems to be caused by the following issue, so later on that.

I copied all the markdowns to the `contents/` folder just to be sure, and the same thing happened.
I googled a bit and found that i need to create `layouts/_default/single.html` file. So i created it and put `{{ .Content }}` 

in there, and then my `index.md` file appeared on `http://localhost:12000/` as expected. But then i noticed that the links are incorrect, being in form of `[foo](foo.md)` in source, and also having `.md` extension in rendered hrefs, which is not how Hugo names pages. Another bit (a chunk) of googling led me to `layout/_default/_markup/render-link.md` containing `<a href="{{ replace .Destination ".md" "" | safeURL }}">{{ .Text | safeHTML }}</a>`, which is hacky but at least it works (for rewriting links at least).
But then when i tried to go to the links they all have Page not found error. And google says that it *is* the way Hugo works, rendering content/foo.md as `http://localhost:12000/foo/`.

And yes, it does output warnings:
```
WARN 2023/03/07 17:41:40 found no layout file for "HTML" for kind "home": You should create a template file which matches Hugo Layouts
 Lookup Rules for this combination.
WARN 2023/03/07 17:41:40 found no layout file for "HTML" for kind "taxonomy": You should create a template file which matches Hugo Lay
outs Lookup Rules for this combination.
WARN 2023/03/07 17:41:40 found no layout file for "HTML" for kind "taxonomy": You should create a template file which matches Hugo Lay
outs Lookup Rules for this combination.
```

And the info:
```                   | EN
-------------------+------
  Pages            | 188
  Paginator pages  |   0
  Non-page files   |   0
  Static files     |   0
  Processed images |   0
  Aliases          |   0
  Sitemaps         |   1
  Cleaned          |   0
```

I'm too confused and tired by now. Can someone explain me what should i do if i just want to simply render every markdown file in specified folder (recursively), with links in form of `[foo](foo.md)` or `[bar](../bar.md)`, without any fancy templating or index page or taxonomy pages or yaml front matter nonsense?
And the general advice and tips on running a portable ZK of markdown files (meaning a folder that does not have anything about Hugo in it and preferably not even located in a Hugo project, but i can fix that with Docker if the `--contentDir` flag wouldn't work) with Hugo would also be nice.
